Hello and welcome to ISP 100,
offered by the Institute for the Study of
University Pedagogy, or ISUP.
We're glad that you are here with us
today.
This video is designed to give you a bit
more information on the Writing Check In.
The Writing Check in has been designed to
assess your writing skills to ensure that
you can benefit from taking ISP 100.
It helps us recognize who would benefit
from additional exposure to some of the
core components of written communication
in academic English.
There are two outcomes from the Writing
Check In.
Pass and Do not pass.
Students who pass remain in ISP 100 and
continue on with the course as usual.
If the results of your writing check in
suggest that you will not yet fully
benefit from the instruction offered in
ISP 100 and that you are in the Do Not
Pass category,
you will be encouraged to instead enroll
in ISP010,
which is a free non credit course that
focuses on foundational writing skills.
If you are in the Do Not Pass category,
you will be unenrolled from ISP 100.
However,
you will be eligible and encouraged to re
enroll in ISP 100 during a subsequent
term.
In that case,
the skills learned in ISP 10 will better
prepare you to succeed in ISP 100.
When you complete the writing check in,
you'll be asked to write a short academic
essay.
We will get into this in a moment.
First,
your professor is going to start by
giving you an article to read,
and you should read that article
thoroughly.
You should also think about how you might
respond to what you've read.
You could, for example,
agree or disagree with the ideas
presented in the article.
Or you could extend one of the arguments
in the article or connect it to your own
experience.
Regardless of what you choose,
you should start to think about why you
agree or disagree.
Focusing on this why piece will help you
form a claim to structure your essay.
I will return to this in a moment.
You have access to the article on Quercus
and you will also be given a hard copy of
it when you complete the writing check in.
During the assessment,
you'll be free to review the article,
make notes, underline, highlight,
etcetera.
You should plan to write 4 paragraphs,
a short introduction, 2 body paragraphs,
and a short conclusion.
The introduction should contain an
explicit claim.
Something like this would work.
I agree with the author's assertions
about blank for two reasons.
X&Y.
The two body paragraphs should each be
devoted to exploring one of the reasons
you state in your claim.
When you write the body paragraphs,
you should paraphrase evidence from the
article to support your reasoning.
Beyond that,
you should aim to use transitional
phrases to move between sentences and
paragraphs.
There are many kinds of transitional
phrases, but here are some good examples.
1st, I will begin by discussing X.
Now I will move on to discuss why.
And in conclusion,
it's obviously a good idea to avoid
errors,
but overall you should aim to write a
comprehensible, structured formal essay.
This means avoiding contractions and
slang,
but you are free to make I statements.
Regardless of the approach you take,
your essay should include a claim that
you support with your own reasoning
combined with evidence from the article
provided to you.
There is no need to seek additional
information or cite other sources,
and you do not need to follow a specific
citation format such as APA or MLA.
Just to recap,
you should write 4 paragraphs,
a short introduction, 2 body paragraphs,
and a short conclusion.
You should write using a formal academic
tone that avoids using contractions or
slang,
and you should aim to write as legibly as
possible.
Now I am going to discuss the grading
rubric so you have a strong understanding
of how your writing will be assessed.
As we work through this rubric,
I want you to keep in mind that this is a
starting point for university writing,
and you will see similar but more
advanced versions of this rubric as you
proceed through ISP 100.
This rubric has five sections,
audience awareness, organization,
paragraphing, evidence and source, Usage,
and mechanics.
It also has three options, good, marginal,
or inadequate.
It takes a score of 14 or higher to
successfully pass the writing check in.
Let's go through each of these sections.
When considering your audience,
we are looking to see if you can write in
a tone that is appropriate for an
academic audience.
This generally means that you are writing
formally and without any slang or
contractions.
At the highest level,
we would expect to see tone and language
that are completely appropriate for an
academic audience.
In terms of organization,
we want you to be able to develop a
logical response that presents a well
organized argument that is easy for the
reader to follow.
At the highest level,
your essay would demonstrate a clearly
organized argument with signposts to
guide the reader for paragraphing.
We are assessing whether you can stay on
topic and focused on a single idea.
When it comes to evidence,
we are looking to see that you can
integrate information from the article
into your writing and use it sensibly to
support your claim.
Finally, when it comes to mechanics,
we want you to use clear and appropriate
grammar, spelling,
and punctuation to communicate your ideas.
When looking at the columns,
a score of good is worth 4 points.
A score of marginal is worth 2 points and
the score of inadequate is not worth any
points.
The maximum possible score you can
achieve is 20 points.
The minimum passing score is 14 points.
Please keep in mind that the majority of
students pass the writing check in,
but if you are unsuccessful,
you will be removed from ISP 100 and
encouraged to enroll in ISP 10,
which starts in Week 3 during regular
terms and even earlier in the summer
terms.
Please enroll in ISP 10 as soon as
possible.
Students who successfully complete ISP 10
will gain automatic admission to ISP 100
in a future term.
We want you all to move on with your
studies as quickly as possible,
so we aim to communicate your writing
check in results within one to two days.
Your professor will communicate your
results via direct message on Quercus.
That's about all I have to say to you.
Your professor will now take this
opportunity to answer any questions that
you might have.
Good luck and be well.